>> Brian Holt: Moving
on to tree traversals.
This is pretty important, and
if there's one thing that I would say pay
attention so you can understand what we're
going to talk about for the rest of
the day, everything builds on this here.
They're all just different
applications of the same algorithms.
Or at least for the next six hours.
[LAUGH] So, cool.
Let's talk about trees, because
computer scientists really like trees.
And I do too.
So imagine I give you a problem that
I want you to take this tree and
I want you to make it into a flat array.
I'm gonna talk about four different
ways that you can choose how to do this.
So let's just briefly
touch again on trees.
I talk a lot about it in
part one of this course.
A lot.
>> Brian Holt: There's
binary search trees and
then ABL trees and all that stuff.
So, what you have here pictured in
front of you is a binary search tree.
I got this graphic off Wikipedia,
thanks Wikipedia.
>> Brian Holt: The basic gist
is that you have a node, right?
Every one of these circles
is considered a node, right?
This node has a value, right?
And it has a left child and a right child.
Now because this is a binary search tree,
That specific thing,
binary search tree, also known as BST.
So if I say BST, we'll try not to but
it just comes out sometimes.
Binary search trees have special
properties in the sense that everything in
the left sub tree,
if we're talking about eight right here,
everything in this part of the tree.
Also known as a subtree,
because this is still a tree right?
If I take off everything over here
it's still valid tree, right?
So everything in the left
sub-tree is smaller
than eight everything in the right
sub-tree is larger than eight and
that's always true for
everything in the tree right?
So if we go down to six, everything
in the left sub-tree is smaller,
everything in the right
sub-tree is bigger.
Right, we follow?
Cool.
That's it,
that's all a binary search tree is.
They call it a binary search tree
because- binary, it has two children.
Because there are trees that
have more than two children.
At most two children, I should say.
And then it's a search tree because it's
designed to be very searchable right?
So if I am looking for seven,
I don't have to go through everything
in the array to get to seven.
I can just go through some of
them also known as log end.
Right?
That's where the log end parts
come into it.
If we are talking about Big O.
Which if you don't know about Big O,
again please go watch the other parts.
Because I talk a lot about that.
Okay.
Questions about BSTs before we move on?